There is a saying
that experience
is the best teacher,
but that is not
really accurate.
Experience is often
the hard way to learn.
Brother Fernando Casillas
was born in Mexico,
but when he was a baby,
his family moved
to the United States.
The neighborhood he grew up in
had a lot of gang influence.
This had
a very negative impact on him.
But despite these circumstances,
notice how the truth attracted him.
I used to love violence;
I dreamed of violence.
My gang was my religion.
I got into the prison system
at a young age.
At first, they sent me
to a juvenile facility,
but I got kicked out of there
for a riot.
Basically, they deemed me a threat
to the safety and security
of the institution,
the guards, and other inmates.
And I was sent
to solitary confinement
to finish off my prison term.
Me thinking
I was violent back then
was nothing compared to
what I came out with.
Basically,
what you try to come out to be
is the best killer out of all.
After my incarceration,
I was deported to Mexico.
I used to carry a weapon
with me everywhere I went.
After a while, we started getting involved
with bad people.
Eventually,
my girlfriend got in trouble.
Once that was over,
she saw a Kingdom Hall.
My girlfriend had been
to meetings as a child,
so she basically dragged me
to the Kingdom Hall.
They treated me nice.
And that’s when I started
to get to know Omar.
So I started hanging around
with him and his wife
—me and my girlfriend at the time—
and going to meetings.
But it wasn’t till I found out
this guy
used to be one of my rivals
—I was very, very upset.
I felt betrayed because he never told me.
Everything that was going
through my head was,
‘I’ve got to find a way to get him over here,
so I can hurt him.’
After thinking about all the things
that I wanted to do to him that night
—I’d been running it through my head
over and over again—
I decided to just stay friends with him.
And eventually,
we decided to start studying together.
Being the way I was,
I thought that there’s
no way a God can forgive me.
The scripture at Isaiah 55:7
really helped me,
where it says:
“Let the wicked man leave his way
and the evil man his thoughts;
let him return to Jehovah,
who will have mercy on him.”
As time went by,
I started understanding clearly
that Jehovah does forgive.
By that time, I had already
kind of made a decision
that I was done
with doing time in prison.
I just decided to cut all ties with everybody
that had anything to do
with anything illegal.
I felt like a free person.
And after progressing
and quitting the habits that I had
of smoking and drinking a lot,
I became
an unbaptized publisher.
But my father passed away;
I started hanging around
with bad association again,
and eventually
I had my privileges removed.
And as that was happening,
Satan attacked me again.
So one day,
my wife was crossing the border
to go take care of
some paperwork for the kids
and was surprised
by the border patrol
telling her that there
were drugs in the vehicle.
We did not know
that the previous owner
had stashed drugs in the truck.
Even though later they proved
that the drugs were not my wife’s
and she was released,
they still decided to keep my kids.
What I was thinking of doing
was going back to my old ways
—organizing a plot with my old friends
to bring my kids
back to Mexico to me.
But I decided to rely
on Jehovah instead
and on the brothers
coming to visit me
on a regular basis
and giving me encouraging thoughts
of how Jehovah
will take care of everything.
Eventually, our kids were returned to us,
with Jehovah’s help.
After a little struggle,
of course, I had my privileges back.
A few months later, I was baptized.
I’m a lot happier now
than what I was back then.
One day as I was preaching
in the rehab centers,
I ran into a person
I once knew before, growing up.
Once he found out who I was, he said:
“You’re the reason why I left town.
Every time you would see me,
you would shoot at me.”
So after a while,
I was able to convince him
that actually my purpose there
was not to hurt him anymore
but to teach him the truth
and how to gain everlasting life.
I’m no longer a violent person.
I enjoy the privileges
that Jehovah now gives me.
I have now been serving
as a ministerial servant
for the past two years.
I’m in charge of the accounting
for the Kingdom Hall,
instead of stealing money
as I used to do before.
What I do for a living
is I do gardening work.
Now I don’t carry around knives,
but I carry around my tools.
You could say that I did beat
my pistols into plowshares now
—or weed whacker or lawn mower.
I’m glad that I’m
now serving a great God
who is loving,
caring, and forgiving.
Fernando and his family
are serving
in an English congregation in Mexico.
With everything
Brother Casillas went through,
he could see
that Jehovah is the best teacher.
If you listen to Jehovah,
you won’t have to learn
the hard way.
Jehovah is
“the One teaching you
to benefit yourself.”